# Airbnb Price Predictor
This project is rooted from the final course challenge for a graduate Machine Learning course. In this final challenge, we were asked to build our own machine learning solution to predict the price of an Airbnb rental given the provided dataset. The model was evaluated via Mean Squared Error (MSE) score.

Pricing a rental property such as an apartment or house on Airbnb is a difficult challenge. A model that accurately predicts the price can potentially help renters and hosts on the platform make better decisions. In this assignment, your task is to train a model that takes features of a listing as input and predicts the price. We have provided you with a dataset collected from the Airbnb website for New York, which has a total of 39,981 entries, each with 764 features. The data is split into a training set and a test set. You may use the provided data as you wish in development. We will train your submitted code on the same provided training set, and will evaluate it on yet another, hidden, test set.

Some minimal data cleaning was doen, such as converting text fields into categorical values and getting rid of the NaN values. As a quick review, to convert text fields into categorical values, we can use different strategies depending on the field. For example, sentiment analysis was applied to convert user reviews to numerical values (’comments’ column). We added different columns for state names, ’1’ indicating the location of the property. Column names are included in the data files and are mostly descriptive. Also in this data cleaning step, the price value that we are trying to predict is calculated by taking the log of original price. Hence, minimum value for our output price is around 2.302 and maximum value is around 11.488. All input features have already been scaled to [0, 1].

The chosen model was a simple Linear Model (using Linear Regression) with L2-Regularization. Since the number of data points was not large, an alternate implementation using Normal Equation was also provided. An obvious improvement for this project is to implement a more complicated model (e.g. Neural Network) to see if we can achieve a better performance.
